Biochemical engineering was used against
us to make food super addictive in all
of us.
>> I mean, they even print right on the
bag. You can't eat just one. I haven't
had a Dorito chip
>> in probably 15 years, but I could
describe what they taste like cuz
they're good. It's an addictive formula.
Like, they're they're trying to get us
hooked. This is why R.J. Reynolds and
Phil Morris specifically like they
bought snack food companies because they
got caught making cigarettes addictive.
So now they'll just make food addictive.
>> Yes,
>> a lot more people eat food than smoke
cigarettes. So it seemed like a better
business model. So if biochemical
engineering got us here, maybe
biochemical engineering can get us out.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jakewish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering and it
gives me a unique perspective on all
things human physiology, nutrition,
sports performance. I deal with a lot of
professional athletes and my favorite
thing to talk about and educate people
on is those people who do not respond
well to regular weight training, which
is almost everybody. So today I have Mr.
America with me, Mr. America Hart.
That's the name of his channel if you
want to look him up and follow him and
subscribe, which I recommend. So John
Hart, he was natural Mr. from America
and Natural Mystery Universe because
there was a period of time where both of
those contests were drug tested. That's
true. Correct.
>> Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Thank you for having
me on, doctor. Thank you. I appreciate
it.
>> Yeah. Great to see you.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. So, today we're going to talk
about probably one of the most important
and misunderstood characters in the
history of sports performance, Mike
Mener. And there is no one on earth who
is more qualified to speak about Mike
than John Hart. Wow. That's a that's a
big title right there, man. The whole
earth.
>> Well, I mean, just explain your
connection.
>> Okay. Mike.
>> Okay, that's fair. Um, okay. So, the
brief. I'll get in under a minute right
here. Okay. All right. Originally, I
started working out in the mid80s and
I'm now 60 years young, but I started in
the mid 80s and I started out on Mike
Mener's heavyduty training booklets that
he had out at the time. He was a popular
pro bodybuilder and at that point in
time, I started out training on Mike
Menser's heavy duty training system. I
lived in New York. I grew up in New
York. Eventually, I moved out to
Southern California. And in doing so, I
ended up moving to Pa Del Rey. At some
point, I saw Mike Menser was training
clients. It had a phone number at the
end of the article. I picked up the
phone. I dialed it up, left a message.
The man called me back. Boom. Next thing
you know, he's training me. And that
went on all through the '90s. And as it
happens, we lived five houses from each
other in Plyad Del Rey. His condo was
five houses away from me. So, you know,
interesting, right, that we had all
these coincidences going on. So, Right.
Right. So I got to spend quite a bit of
time with him both in business as well
as personal. I'd walk down five houses
and you know plot myself in his living
room and yes I would I'd just open the
fridge and eat whatever I wanted and you
know he cook up he's n a John let's stay
a little later. Come on you don't have
to go yet. He'd cook up a big steak or
chicken or something and we'd eat. But
he trained me off and on and then in
2001 he passed on triple heart attack
and when he left so I had been training
hard through all that time using this
heavy duty high-intensity training
principles and system and when he left
Joanne Shy was his sole inheritor. She
was a big sister to him and when she
inherited everything she took over
everything Mike Mener everything heavy
duty the website the products the
intellectual properties and she her
legacy or her purpose in life at that
point was to promote his legacy and
that's what her mission was initially
after he passed on she hired another man
to handle his online consultations and
he did so for a few years then After
seven or eight years of that, she picked
up the phone, called me up, and said,
"John, would you mind doing this for
me?" And for the next 12 years, all the
way up until her death in 2021, I
handled all of the online and phone
consultations for mikemen.com and Heavy
Duty and Joanne for that matter. So, I
have all the emails to prove it going
back a decade and a half at this point.
So,
>> incredible experience.
>> Very much so. And so, not only did I
learn from Mike Mener, but I also knew
his works inside and out. Uh, they
literally were prior to me becoming a
Christian, they were my Bible. So, Heavy
Duty, heavy duty one, heavy duty 2, they
were my Bible. And so, I studied his
works. I enjoyed rather listening to him
over and over again. With regards to
training, he would train me again
socially. We'd hang out together. We
became friends. you know, over time
it became sort of like the student
taking over where the master left off in
a way. And now in looking back, Dr.
John, we've discussed this, you know,
off camera quite a bit, but I do, you
know, want to let the the listener or
the viewer know that in no way did I
ever and have I ever tried or attempted
to say I'm in any way better than or
smarter than anything that Mike ever
did. Uh Mike didn't have the advantages
that we have today. the advantages of an
additional 24 25 years of research. As a
matter of fact, Mike had little to none
to go on. He had everything that Arthur
Jones had done, right? And he had
everything that some a few a few a
handful of researchers kind of
>> they much
>> there wasn't much. You you would know
better than I, Dr. John exactly who you
know who they were and what they did but
their research was pretty weak you know
and and we see that today that there's
been so much more done and a lot of what
Mike did has been proven right a lot of
what he did has been proven wrong and I
state this today and again I I do so
from a point of look I don't deny the
research okay if it's been proven it's
been proven and a lot of it intuitively
we knew it back in the '9s and then even
going into the 2000s even when I was
teaching the heavy duty the
high-intensity customers through for
Joanne even at that time I was able to
sort of discern a lot of the things that
didn't work versus what did work it was
the why I didn't know the why yet of why
certain things didn't work versus why
some did you had a certain routine at
one point in time that just wasn't
enough frequency involved you know so
like we talked about right
>> proteis
it's over and what are you waiting two
weeks to work out again. You know,
there's nothing going on. Draining the
whole time.
>> Basically, that that's the one big thing
that nobody knew,
>> right?
>> Nobody knew the answer. How long does it
take for the body to complete muscle
protein synthesis?
>> Yes.
>> He thought it was two weeks. Now, I've
got an interesting piece of information
I have not even shared with you. Oh,
come on. Bring it on. Bring it on. which
is in a theory. Well, not I have a study
that I want to talk about, but when we
look at the sort of the like the radio
isotope nuclear testing, sure bone mass.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Primary mineralization
of bone takes 5 to 10 days. Secondary
mineralization of bone takes 120 days.
This is from one instance of osteiogenic
loading. One episode one
>> of introducing a stress to the bone mass
that is significant enough primarily
talking about the lower extremities but
this is true of all bone. It's easier
seen in the lower extremities because
they accept more force. The minimum dose
response for triggering growth in the
bone is 4.2 multiples of body weight.
Wow.
>> Which is, by the way, bigger than the
world record squat.
>> Yeah. You're not going to go and lift a
barbell off the ground,
>> right? I mean, like like Matt winning,
he held the record for a bit. There's a
friend of mine trained a Westside
barbell and he at 300 lb of body weight,
he squatted 1,200 lb, which is four
times his body weight,
>> right? Which is still not 4.2. No, it's
not. So like literally like one of the
strongest people on earth
>> still there
>> build bone density with weights,
>> right?
>> So it's it's very interesting like Mener
wasn't wrong about the body taking a
long time to recover from certain
things.
>> It was just muscle's not one of because
muscle has a faster metabolic rate
>> than bone. And I mean, is it possible
that neural inhibitory signals happen?
They always happen with very heavy
loading cuz like that's how we moderate.
That's why we don't contract muscles to
the point of just fracturing our own
bone. Like you can't squeeze a fist hard
enough to break your own finger,
>> right?
>> Do you have the strength to break your
own finger? Yeah, actually you do.
>> And inhibition stops it.
>> Yeah. Your your own neural inhibition
stops it. Now
>> it's like, was he wrong? Okay, maybe.
Right.
>> But the logic was very sound. So, so I'm
glad you put it that way. Was he wrong?
Maybe. But the logic was very sound. The
logic in the absence of hard research.
All he had was logic. Okay. We talked
about how Arthur Jones historically
contributed certain things to
highintensity training and to growing
muscle. Okay. Mike Mener's contribution
was carrying on where Arthur left off
taking what he could from that and then
logically logically nobody was speaking
logic logically
>> right
>> deriving
>> Rand was and that's who he quotes all
the time.
>> There you go. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I rand you know in
philosophy that was a
>> you know he loved her and he also loved
her writings. And by the way, if if you
haven't ever read or you know watched
the movie Atlas Shrugged or even the
Fountain Head,
>> I don't know about that movie, but the
book
>> Well, I'm I'm saying for sure. Okay. you
know, there's certain aspects of society
that we've seen some of that come true
over the course of, you know, that was
presented in Atlas Shrugged that
>> some of those aspects of, you know,
government and society.
>> The government in Atlas Shrugged is
basically the Biden administration
>> and and and absolutely screwing
everything up
>> everywhere. Everything they touch turns
to everything that we went through
in 2020, 2021,
>> right? All of that
>> how far back I've read excerpts of that
book to some of my friends and they're
like,
>> "When was this written,
>> right? Like 40s."
>> 1940s. And they're like,
>> "Yeah,
>> sounds like right now." You can go you
can go on uh on on Netflix or Amazon
Prime or any one of those, Hulu, and
you'll find the movie Atlas Shrugged.
It's a four-part movie and I've actually
trained uh one of the actors, Jason
Beay. He's in like part two or part
three. So, they have the movie and
because they shot the different aspects
of the movie separated by a couple of
years, they use different actors. Okay?
So, all four parts you have different or
all three parts you have different
actors and and Jason Beay plays Henry
Rearen in one of the one of the parts.
Anyway, I'm going off the rails right
here. Yes.
Mike and his philosophy. If somebody's
going to watch this video, they know
about Mike and they know about his
philosophy.
>> Sure.
>> I want to dispel a couple of the things
that people, you know, use to criticize
him. Like,
>> please.
>> Yeah. And and I mean, I I have some some
significant contact and and
relationships with some people in the
Air Force. And one thing I notice about
the Air Force, especially, I don't know
about now, but in some relatively recent
history, the Air Force has been very
well, they don't hide it. They don't
advertise it, but they give pilots
amphetamines.
And you I mean, hey, you know, you got
to stay awake. You're flying a jet for I
mean, how about recently? 36 hours it
took to fly to Iran from
>> Minnesota. By the way, it's so badass
that we can take off.
>> Badass, man.
>> Drop the hammer on some idiots in in the
middle of the desert on the other side
of the world and then fly home.
>> Awesome. Yeah. I I I cannot I cannot
celebrate that enough. I mean, Mike,
what's the story? Okay. So, so he had
>> he was in the Air Force, by the way.
That's why.
>> Yeah. Yeah. He Yeah, he was in the Air
Force as well. You're right. He served
in the Air Force, but as a pro
bodybuilder in 1979 through 1980, 1981,
you know, it was it was rather common
use of amphetamines. You know, baseball
players of course use them all the time,
but body Yeah. Greenies. Right. Right.
Call them greenies. Call them greenies.
And so a lot of them who you know some
of them suffered from addiction
eventually from that. But Mike the story
and this is both. It's not both. This is
straight from his mouth. He told me
himself. The day came where number one
he was in love. The phrases he said John
I was in love with being productive.
That was his thing. Okay. He didn't want
to go to sleep. He literally uh would
train, eat, do cardio,
>> write articles, study,
read philosophy, all of his whole day he
had scheduled out and then sleep would
be a little sliver on the end right
there. And it was just enough to keep
him from getting nuts. But then he said
to me, he goes, "You know, John," and I
remember we were sitting at the Rose
Cafe in Venice, California, after he
trained me. And so we're sitting there
and he says to me, he said, "You know,
John, the day that I read
that I studied up on amphetamines and I
saw that the number one side effect of
the amphetamines was psychosis, he said,
I said the words, well, this will never
happen to me. I have much too firm a
grasp of my faculty. And he said, "The
moment I said that, I should have
checked myself into the hospital because
that meant I was already gone.
>> I was listening to another voice in my
head at that moment. Psychosis had
already grabbed a hold of him."
>> And also, it's important for everybody
to know that 30 years ago,
>> I I mean that that's when Adderall was
being put out developed. It was like,
"Oh, amphetamines are like the future.
We're just going to give up on caffeine
and we're all going to take this other
thing." And yeah, boy, that didn't go
well. But
>> we knew that back then.
>> Good point. Really good point.
>> There's a lot of amazing advancements
that were supposed to change the world
and yeah, they really didn't do that. So
in his case, you know, the the
interesting part was that or you he
tells the story he was you he went off
the rails psychosis wise and that was
you know in the early 80s around 8384 he
started going off the rails big time and
it his brain you know there was
something thrown off and you know when
you find yourself living in a gutter
there's a problem and people you got him
the right kind of help he would end up
in the hospital several times uh mental
institutions
And then it was the whole second half of
the '8s was a blur to him. He doesn't
remember. It's just sad because people
like trash him today for that. And it's
like has nothing to do with like his
bodybuilding philosophy. Like you're
just trying to trash the guy.
>> That's right. We we might as well, you
know, you might as well trash turn your
light switch off because Thomas Edison
also had a cocaine issue. So if you
really want to
>> So stop using light bulbs.
>> Yeah. That silly thing called light, you
know, in your house. you should shut
that off because you know some drug
addict developed it can't be real right
so after all that right Einstein's
theory of relativity Einstein was also
into coke you know so right I mean like
these are all ad homonym attacks yes so
it's like
>> I notice people who cannot argue with me
on a scientific basis they say
ridiculous about me like I have a
fake degree which is not true
>> yeah but they still say
all the time, right?
>> And it's it's it's like when the
personal attacks come out, and this is
part of the reason why Trump won the
election, because all his opposition
could do is mention personal stuff about
him, like he's a bad guy. He's, you
know, bad with women. He's bad with
kids, even though he babysits Elon's
kid.
>> Exactly. No, I mean it's like there's
there's no evidence or there's very
selective evidence,
>> right?
>> All these, but they were all just
personal attacks. It's like, okay, well,
great. Like, considering we're not
electing him to be the babysitter of
your kid,
>> right?
>> Uh how about how about what his policies
are? Are they good?
>> And they wouldn't they weren't even
willing to talk about that, which is
like the same thing when somebody
criticizes me like, "Oh, he has a fake
degree." Or, "Oh, oh, he's on steroids."
No, I'm not.
>> All right. Right.
>> I mean, I take TRT. I've been very open
about that.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is not the same as being natural,
by the way.
>> Very good. I like that you said that.
>> It's just not sick.
>> Yeah. And so, look, those are great
points because relatively speaking, when
when Mike got out of the hospital at one
point, his brother Ry was also a Mr.
America and Mr. He didn't win the Mr.
Universe, but he's a pro bodybuilder. He
won the Mr. America. They're the only
brothers in history that ever won the
Mr. America. Ry, you know, helped him
out when he got on out and uh Mike came
on out of the hospital for the last
time. He decided he was not going back
to this nonsense again the way he tell
told the story and he got his life
together. And so he didn't go back to
the drugs, you know, much to certain
people's claims that ah once a drug
addict always a drug addict. Well, no,
it's not quite true. You know, there's
some people that go crazy in recovery.
>> That that's true. But going back to the
drugs, it doesn't mean there's not
everybody. It doesn't fall into
recidivism. Everybody keep on falling
back into it over and over again. It
doesn't happen to everybody. And so he
was one of the ones that he knew. Here
we are again. We're at the Rose Cafe.
He's ordering. Yes. Can I have a cup of
coffee? Please make that half decaf,
please. He'd look at me and go, "Ah, no
reason to be poking at the bear, John,
like this, you know, cuz he wouldn't
even want the caffeine. He wouldn't even
want a full cup of coffee, right? You
see? Yeah. So, it's I'm glad you
dispelled that that myth because it's
like it's just a way to attack a man who
isn't even alive to defend himself.
>> True.
>> And it also has nothing to do with his
training philosophy. You just want to
trash somebody.
>> 100% true. And you know,
>> people are just garbage.
>> Garbage. But look, most of them will
also make a point and say, "Well, yeah,
you know, John Hart, you know, you were
his friend. You you're biased. Of
course, you're going to defend your
friend. He's not here to do it. B. Look,
that doesn't negate the fact that I'm
spitting out facts, that I'm telling
truth. Okay? So, factually, truthfully,
he went clean. And for the rest of the
days that I knew him, guy knew him all
through the 1990s straight through early
90s all the way to his death in 2001. We
trained people out of the same gym for
the late 20 late 90s into 20201.
So, we were at Angel City Fitness in
Marina del Rey. It was a little gym, had
a ton of Nautilus equipment, by the way.
And
>> and so I saw him on a daily basis and I
hung out with him still. I lived in Pa
del Rey. I hung out with him regularly.
So the man was not, you know, was he
quirky? Was he different? Yeah. People
say it all the time that knew him from
when he was a pro bodybuilder to when he
became a little bit older that he was
just different. Well, yeah. His brain
was changed. That doesn't mean the
intellect or the logic was not sound.
Okay. the logic was sound. Mike's
reasoning when it came to training and
and I remember it's almost like he only
had like two bullets in the chamber.
Okay. And I say I say this lovingly of
course but two bullets in the chamber
meaning his answer to somebody not
making progress. Okay. In invariably
there were always two bullets in the
chamber and then a third which you just
mentioned. Remind me about the
testosterone. Number one was take more
days off.
That was one answer. No progress. Take
more days off. You're overtrained.
Number two, eat more calories.
Whoa.
>> Yeah.
>> Eat more.
>> Fat city, man. I'm talking fat. Fat.
>> So, he got fat.
>> Fat city.
>> And yes, he did. Yes, he did. Calories
don't make you big. Protein makes you
big. Showering make you fat. I I I'm
with you. And so the majority of the
people from that time
who did in fact see who were at Gold's
gym in Venice, who were at Angel City
Fitness where I was as well as goals at
one point, they're in denial if they
don't bring up the fact that look, his
workouts, while they were good and they
worked really well, certain ones worked
extremely well. However, his clients all
got fat. Not all of them, but the ones
who did certain kinds of workouts that
were not making progress, they got fat.
And that didn't matter whether they were
on drugs or enhanced or not. It didn't
matter. They all got fat. And so the
third or I say half bullet. So the one
was take more days off. Number two was
increase your calories. The third bullet
and he would rarely use this one was he
would say if those first two didn't
work, he'd tell them go get your
testosterone levels checked. That was
number three to him. So he would send
them off and go and get a blood test and
check their panel and see, you know, and
and he it's not as if, look, it's not as
if he even knew the the relationship
between SHBG and free testosterone, for
example, right? It's not like he even
knew that. He would just look at does do
they have high testosterone, you know?
>> Yeah. I mean, he used anabolics while he
was training. He knows they work. So
>> yeah,
>> and so there would be a question that
would come up at that point of well if
they wanted to grow then you know the
question would come up you can choose to
use anabolics or not or just deal with
the fact that you don't have those kind
of genes at this point you know to grow
any more muscle because he believed 100%
100% that his training people say he
said his training was the only way to
train. That's not true. He said his
training was the only logical
way to train. Don't forget that word if
you don't. That's why I was so lit up.
>> That's a direct quote from Arthur who
they worked together.
>> Yes. Of course. Of course.
>> I'm pointing out that he never claimed
his was the only way to train. It was
the only logical place to start your
experiment.
>> You even said the most muscular person
you ever met was in the Air Force.
and he walked up to him and started
asking him about his cycle,
>> right? Like
>> it was natural cycle.
>> And the guy's like, "Oh, I don't ride a
bike,
>> right?" He's very confused in this
conversation. He's like, "Cycleycle? I
don't have right." Like, you know, and
then Mike's just like, "Dude, what?"
>> Yeah. And it turns out the guy didn't
even train,
>> right?
>> Yeah. He's just gifted.
>> There are behemoths among us. Okay.
There are behemoths among us. And so one
thing I'd like to mention too is that in
the last several years to their credit
people have really thrashed the
millennial crowd as well as the gen what
are we on now Z or Y? I don't know where
we at.
>> Well I mean Z like I think like over 20.
>> Okay. Like 20 to 30. Yeah. So that crowd
people thrash them as being lazy. They
thrash them as being you know
uninspired. All of those things.
However, you know, the majority of my
subscribers on my channel and my social
media are between 24 and 40. So,
they all Yeah. What are they doing on my
channel? And the majority of my
subscribers are that. So, it's not
people my age. What are they doing? When
men started getting popular again in
social media back around 202122,
so the algorithms picked up on them and
it started just a flurry hit. whole
bunch of audio files were thrown out
there and the algorithms picked them up
and redistributed them really well. That
one group, I have to credit that young
group, let's call them 20 to 40. that
young group age group they are thinking
at least I'll give them some credit for
thinking somewhat logically somewhat by
listening to Menser but there may be a
little element of being a little bit
lazy not wanting to do too much and all
you know cuz hey the you know training
as little as possible right so wanting
as much as possible for as little
investment there we go I just said this
on another video I was shooting there's
there's no merit badge you get for white
knuckling it's your life.
>> Like if you can stack the deck to make
things a little bit easier for you.
>> Yeah.
>> Like if you're quitting smoking
cigarettes, are you a if you get a
nicotine patch or chew nicotine gum? No.
>> Good point. Yeah.
>> No, I mean the tools are out there. Use
them.
>> Good point.
>> Yeah. And I mean that can be applied a
different way. And I I this is a very
controversial take I'm going to throw at
you right now. A lot of people have been
really down on the GLP peptides.
>> Mhm.
>> It like just like that's terrible. Like
you never want to go down that path like
and and
>> saving lives.
>> It it Well, okay. I mean,
>> a lot of people have the same view of
steroids. So
>> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. However,
biochemical engineering was used against
us to make food super addictive.
>> There we go.
>> In all of us.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, they even print right on the
bag, you can't eat just one
like like I mean like I haven't had a
Dorito chip
>> in probably 15 years, but I could
describe what they taste like.
>> I remember.
>> Good point.
>> I do. I remember it cuz they're good.
They taste good and it's it's an
addictive formula. Like they're they're
trying to get us hooked. I mean, this is
why R.J. Reynolds and Phil Morris
specifically like they bought snack food
companies because they got caught making
cigarettes addictive. So now they'll
just make food addictive.
>> Yes.
>> A lot more people eat food than smoke
cigarettes. So it seemed like a better
business model.
>> Yes. So if biochemical engineering got
us here, maybe biochemical engineering
can get us out. And also from the
perspective of like let's say we have
three things. We have hormones,
peptides, and pharmaceuticals that don't
fall into either of those two
categories. So a chemical not found in
nature,
>> right? If you're going to look to
something for help, a hormone, which
your body already makes,
>> y
>> and a peptide, which your body already
makes,
>> is probably just from a an engineering
perspective,
less likely to have a real negative
impact on you.
>> Yes.
>> Otherwise, your your body doesn't make a
lot of things that kill you.
>> Right. Right. In fact, like like a lot
of the the more recent theories on
cancer, it has a lot to do with the
hormones you have based on like your
your depression, your stress, and your
frustration. You go always always
chronically high cortisol. Like these
people have a higher instances of higher
instances of all types of cancer. Well,
you know, may maybe that's why maybe
it's not, you know, because of
whatever whatever the environmental
thing is that gets blamed, you know,
whether it's asbestos or whatever that
that actually is a bad one, but there's
some that are blamed that I just go,
really? Yeah,
>> we have enough evidence for that.
>> So, right. Yeah. and and and so I I
think you need to
consider
that maybe those other things while not
natural
>> Mhm. maybe they're not the worst thing
in the world like like I think doing
steroid cycles is a bad idea because
it's out of control. Yeah, it's out of
control. That's right.
>> But testosterone replacement therapy if
you need it.
>> Yeah. Boy, does it help. Saves lives. I
say it again. Saves lives. It keeps
keeps some men from getting your life.
>> Well, I'm saying it in a way I'm saying
it in this way. It keeps some men from
blowing their brains out.
>> Sure. I mean, it it does positively
affect
cause mortality. You live longer if
you're guy on TRT statistically.
>> Wow. Wow.
Well, we may have to talk in the future
then. So, what I want to also get across
too is listen, I want to also put this
out too that I'm I'm directly associated
with Mike Mener and historically I am.
It's part of my story. It's part of my
his story and and I'm I'm happy to be
that way. However, I want even the
viewers on your channel to know that I I
never saw him. I don't see him even
today as God. You know, some people are
they they deify some of these people who
we remember from the past. And I don't
do that. And I am one of those guys that
I do believe that a great teacher
>> would rather enjoy seeing their student
surpass anything they did or go further
or take what they did and go further
with it in some ways. And the the irony
I shared this with you a couple weeks
ago that one of my one of the people
from my training community, I have an
online I have an exclusive training
community. One of them did a fun chat
GPT comparison.
>> Oh yeah. Comparing your program to
Mensor's program,
>> but cross referenced it with your
research,
>> right?
>> Yeah. And it's like like you said, like
we have the benefit of better science
now.
>> And so that's exactly it is that you
know there are those people who do DFI
Mike that to this day, you know, I had a
few comments that were nasty and saying
who do you think you are? I did a video
on it of course cuz they handed me this
content right of course I'm going to do
a video on this but you know they deify
him to such an extent that you know
anybody they see it as sacrilegious for
me to even compare or to mention it you
know no it's fun it's fun
>> if you have any fans
>> there will be a percentage that will
hate pretty much anything just one of
your videos like they'll be like that
son of a I could like all right
so let me let me recommend to everybody
I want to recommend that if they do want
to get a hold or learn more of actual
Mike Menser teachings and don't get
caught up in the weeds okay because we
are in 2025 and we have certain things
like AI generated images
audio all of that that some of them is
not it's just not real okay but do you
want the real deal? Well, seek out and
find his original works. Okay. You'll
see a book from 1980 called The Mensor
Method to Fitness. You'll see Heavy Duty
One, that's a white cover book with a
picture of Mike on the cover. You'll see
Heavy Duty Two.
>> Oh, good. Yeah. Heavy Duty 2, Mind and
Body. It's a black cover book. And that
one was probably one of the best ones he
ever had wrote. Written in 1996. That's
excellent book.
>> Written in 1996. And that one kind of
pulls all of what we've talked about
today, John. the his logic and his
reasoning and the reasons why he
adjusted workouts a certain way and
played with the variables. You know,
it's funny because
>> I read that book. I actually remember
like filling out the card.
>> Yes.
>> Like like you know it was like a
postcard and you like fill it out,
>> mail it in.
>> I order it was delivered to my
fraternity house.
>> There you go.
>> Hold on to that. It's collector's item.
It's worth a lot. Yeah. And and what
I'll say is is all of the supposed
writings, including highintensity
training, the Mike Menser way that
you'll find with some out there today,
those were books that he did not he did
not finish that. He died before it was
final edit and finally put out. So yeah.
So stick with the ones that you know
from Heavy Duty Journal. and heavy news
journal that comes from he that one too.
That was like probably the funniest one
because
>> he just kind of rambles in it.
>> Yeah.
>> And like and like you like his diet was
>> awful. Just pancakes syrup an apricot. I
mean there were 1,200 calories a day
before the Mr. Olympian eating 900
calories. I'm like what?
>> Yeah.
>> Crazy.
>> So but but you said it once, right? You
did say once that if you're going to eat
the carbs, and I experienced this
myself, okay, some of my my my clients
know this and some of the people who
followed me over the years, I
experienced it myself. If you're going
to eat the carbs, which I have done,
you're going very low in those calories
to in order to get that fat off. You
will be hardly eating any food. It's not
enjoyable and it does take an extreme
amount of discipline to do that. That's
quite different from having a nice
amount of protein. And actually I can
feel a thermogenic effect
>> when I ingest 50 60 g of protein plus it
actually lights me up. So it's easier
remaining lean and getting leaner doing
that too. So that's the other thing
thermogenic effective food. There's just
a study that came out. I'll have to dig
to find it because I I didn't save it.
it. I didn't find it particularly like
like I'm going to reference this all the
time kind of thing, but one meal a day
>> Uhhuh.
>> is massive with thermic effect of food.
>> Wow.
>> You spread the same amount of calories
out, you don't get a thermic effect or
you get you get a much lessened thermic
effect, which means more of it gets
stored.
>> Right. Right. Right. Interesting. Really
interesting. You're like my cliffnotes
on all these studies that are coming out
right now. I do appreciate that. I hope
the listener appreciates it, too. So,
stick with I I throw stuff like this out
all the time. It's awesome. So, my last
bit of advice on Mike Menser, stick with
the actual written works that he wrote
himself. He edited. Those are the books
I just mentioned. Anything if it's not
those three books, you know, Mensor
method to fitness from 1980, a heavyduty
white cover that was around 1992 or
three. And then 1996, Heavy Duty 2, Mind
and Body. Those books right there will
get you as much information that Mike
ever really had. You know, everything
beyond that has been speculative.
Everything beyond that has been AI
generated. Everything beyond that has
been well, there have been some things
in seminars that cont he he contradicted
himself many times in seminars, too. So
that's that is true. But stick with
those books if you want to learn the
most. But that's it, Doc. Thanks, John.
All right.
>> Appreciate you.
>> We will do this again. Awesome.
>> Thank you so much.
>> If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.